[20631] Update xtypes 1.3 doc (#730)
eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs: docs/fastdds/xtypes/language_binding.rst

Objects of this interface have value semantics allowing the MemberDescriptor data to be deeply copied and compared.

VerbatimTextDescriptor
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

|VerbatimTextDescriptor-api| is in charge of describing the :code:`@verbatim` builtin annotation application.
Objects of this interface have value semantics allowing the VerbatimTextDescriptor data to be deeply copied and
compared.

DynamicTypeBuilderFactory
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| serves as a singleton which instance is responsible for both creating and deleting
|DynamicTypeBuilder-api| objects.
This class provides the generic |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_type| API, and also specific APIs to define other
basic types such as strings, sequences, etc.
More information can be found in :ref:`xtypes_supportedtypes` section.

DynamicType
^^^^^^^^^^^

|DynamicType-api| objects represents a specific type definition.
Once the DynamicType has been built, it cannot be modified.
Objects of this interface have reference semantics, so the API receives a nil-reference which is then returned pointing
to the correct DynamicType address.

DynamicTypeMember
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> |DynamicTypeMember-api| represents a data member of a DynamicType that is in itself a DynamicType.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|DynamicTypeMember-api| represents a data member of a DynamicType.
```

Reviewer: I remove the sentence because I think it is not true.

The following table shows the supported primitive types and their corresponding :code:`TypeKind`.
The :code:`TypeKind` is used to query the DynamicTypeBuilderFactory for the specific primitive DynamicType.

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - C++ Type
      - TypeKind
    * - :code:`bool`
      - :code:`TK_BOOLEAN`
    * - :code:`char`
      - :code:`TK_CHAR8`
    * - :code:`wchar_t`
      - :code:`TK_CHAR16`
    * - :code:`uint8_t`
      - :code:`TK_BYTE` / :code:`TK_UINT8`
    * - :code:`int8_t`
      - :code:`TK_INT8`
    * - :code:`int16_t`
      - :code:`TK_INT16`
    * - :code:`uint16_t`
      - :code:`TK_UINT16`
    * - :code:`int32_t`
      - :code:`TK_INT32`
    * - :code:`uint32_t`
      - :code:`TK_UINT32`
    * - :code:`int64_t`
      - :code:`TK_INT64`
    * - :code:`uint64_t`
      - :code:`TK_UINT64`
    * - :code:`float`
      - :code:`TK_FLOAT32`
    * - :code:`double`
      - :code:`TK_FLOAT64`
    * - :code:`long double`
      - :code:`TK_FLOAT128`

The example below shows how to create an structure with primitive members.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl

>             :language: idl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            :language: omg-idl
```

This means that a smaller type can be implicitly promoted to a larger type, but not the other way around.

The following promotions are supported:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - TypeKind
      - Allowed promotions
    * - :code:`TK_INT8`
      - :code:`TK_INT16`, :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_INT16`
      - :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_INT32`
      - :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_INT64`
      - :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_UINT8`
      - :code:`TK_INT16`, :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_UINT16`, :code:`TK_UINT32`, :code:`TK_UINT64`,
        :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_UINT16`
      - :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_UINT32`, :code:`TK_UINT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`,
        :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_UINT32`
      - :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_UINT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_UINT64`

>       - :code:`TK_FLOAT64`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
```

    * - :code:`TK_FLOAT32`
      - :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_FLOAT64`
      - :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
      - (none)
    * - :code:`TK_CHAR8`
      - :code:`TK_CHAR16`, :code:`TK_INT16`, :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`int64_t`, :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`,
        :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
    * - :code:`TK_CHAR16`

>       - :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`int64_t`, :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`
```

    * - :code:`TK_BYTE`
      - (any)
    * - :code:`TK_BOOLEAN`

>       - :code:`TK_INT8`, :code:`TK_INT16`, :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_UINT8`, :code:`TK_UINT16`,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - :code:`TK_INT16`, :code:`TK_INT32`, :code:`TK_INT64`, :code:`TK_UINT16`,
```

Reviewer: Sorry, in that moment I opened X-Types1.2

        :code:`TK_UINT32`, :code:`TK_UINT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT32`, :code:`TK_FLOAT64`, :code:`TK_FLOAT128`

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_string:

String Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^

> String Types are one-dimensional collections of characters (:code:`TK_CHAR8` or :code:`TK_CHAR16`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
String types are one-dimensional collections of characters (:code:`TK_CHAR8` or :code:`TK_CHAR16`.
```

Once the |DynamicData-api| is created, information can be accessed as if working with the base type.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl
            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_TYPEDEF
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_TYPEDEF<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_TYPEDEF
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type, please refer to
:ref:`XML Alias Types<xmldynamictypes_typedef>`.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_sequence:

Sequence types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Sequence types are one-dimensional collections of any type.
The :code:`TypeKind` used to identify sequences is :code:`TK_SEQUENCE`.
|TypeDescriptor-api| :code:`element_type` property must be set with the collection's type.
Additionally, :code:`bound` property might be configured to set a maximum length for the collection.

> Otherwise, the collection is considered to be unbounded.

Reviewer: This is not true. It is mandatory to set the bound. For unbounded `LENGTH_UNLIMITED` must be set.

input.
Specific collection's element can be also be modified using the :func:`get_value` / :func:`set_value` passing the index
of the element to be modified.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl
            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_SEQUENCES
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_SEQUENCES<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_SEQUENCES
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type, please refer to
:ref:`XML Sequence Types <xmldynamictypes_sequence>`.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_array:

Array types
^^^^^^^^^^^

Array types are multi-dimensional collections of any type.
The :code:`TypeKind` used to identify arrays is :code:`TK_ARRAY`.
|TypeDescriptor-api| :code:`element_type` property must be set with the collection's type.

> Additionally, :code:`bound` property must be configured with the sequence containing the size of each dimension.

Reviewer: Maybe comment at least one dimension is mandatory and a dimension cannot be 0.

            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_ARRAYS
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_ARRAYS<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_ARRAYS
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type, please refer to
:ref:`XML Array Types<xmldynamictypes_array>`.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_map:

Map Types
^^^^^^^^^

Map types are a collection of key/value pair types.
Access to the value element is done through the key which is unique within the map type.
The :code:`TypeKind` used to identify maps is :code:`TK_MAP`.
|TypeDescriptor-api| :code:`element_type` property must be set with the map value type.
|TypeDescriptor-api| :code:`key_type` property must be set with the map key type.
Allowed key types are signed and unsigned integer types and string types.

.. note::

  Currently, wide string keys are not supported as map keys.

> Additionally, :code:`bound` property might be configured to set a maximum length for the collection.

Reviewer: It is mandatory.

|DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| exposes the |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_map_type| function to
facilitate the creation of this type.
This API requires the type of both the key and the value stored in the collection, and the collection's bound, using
:code:`LENGTH_UNLIMITED` in case of unbounded maps.

Manipulating map types data is more complex.
First the :code:`MemberId` corresponding to a specific :code:`key` must be retrieved using
|DynamicData::get_member_id_by_name| API.

> In order to call this method, the correct :code:`string` representation of the key value must be passed.

Reviewer: Explain that calling `get_member_id_by_name`, if the key doesn't exists, it will be created. As in `std::map` with operator `[]`.

* :code:`TK_INT16`
* :code:`TK_UINT16`
* :code:`TK_INT32`
* :code:`TK_UINT32`
* :code:`TK_INT64`
* :code:`TK_UINT64`
* :code:`TK_ENUM`
* :code:`TK_ALIAS` that resolves, directly or indirectly to one of the aforementioned types.

:ref:`Union extensibility<extensibility>` might be configured using |TypeDescriptor-api| :code:`extensibility_kind`
property.

.. note::

  Currently, :code:`@nested` builtin annotation is not supported.

Union members must be configured using the |DynamicTypeBuilder-api| by calling the |DynamicTypeBuilder::add_member|
function with the corresponding |MemberDescriptor-api|.
At least one union member must be added to the union type.
Union member name is configured using |MemberDescriptor-api| :code:`name` property and the member type is set using
:code:`type` property.
It is also mandatory to either set |MemberDescriptor-api| :code:`is_default_label` property or configure the
:code:`label` property.
This latest property indicates the discriminator values that select this specific member.
If no labels are configured, then the flag indicating the member to be the default one, must be set.
Only one union member must be configured as default.

> Additionally, |MemberDescriptor-api| :code:`default_value` property might be set to configured the member default value,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, |MemberDescriptor-api| :code:`default_value` property might be set to configure the member default value,
```

.. include:: ../../03-exports/aliases.include
.. include:: ../../03-exports/aliases-api.include
.. include:: ../../03-exports/roles.include

.. _xtypes_language_binding:

Dynamic Language Binding
========================

*eProsima Fast DDS* supports several methods for defining |DynamicTypes|.
Manual creation using |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| and |DynamicTypeBuilder-api| to create the types.

:ref:`XMLDynamicTypes <xmldynamictypes>` allows *eProsima Fast DDS* to create DynamicTypes directly defining 
them through XML.

:ref:`Fast DDS-Gen <fastddsgen_intro>` provides a way to automatically generate the code to define the |DynamicTypes| 
from the IDL files.

This section contains a detailed explanation of how to create |DynamicTypes| using the manual way, as well as the 
same examples using XML and IDL files.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes:

> Supported Types

Author: added in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

---------------

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_primitive:

Primitives
^^^^^^^^^^

By definition, primitive types are self-described and can be created without configuration parameters.
Therefore, |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| exposes the function |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::get_primitive_type| 
to allow users to create the type avoiding the |DynamicTypeBuilder-api| step.
The |DynamicData-api| class has a specific :func:`get__value` and :func:`set__value` functions for each primitive 
type of the list.

The following table shows the supported primitive types and their corresponding ``TypeKind``.
The ``TypeKind`` is used to identify the type when creating it.

+------------------+-------------------+

> | Type             | TypeKind          |

Author: fixed in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

> | Type             | TypeKind          |

Reviewer 2: Then I suggest modifying to a proper C++ syntax.

> | Type             | TypeKind          |

Reviewer 2: Done in 366d46aa

+------------------+-------------------+
| ``CHAR8``        | ``TK_CHAR8``      |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``CHAR16``       | ``TK_CHAR16``     |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``OCTET``        | ``TK_BYTE``       |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``INT8``         | ``TK_INT8``       |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``UINT8``        | ``TK_UINT8``      |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``INT16``        | ``TK_INT16``      |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``UINT16``       | ``TK_UINT16``     |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``INT32``        | ``TK_INT32``      |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``UINT32``       | ``TK_UINT32``     |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``INT64``        | ``TK_INT64``      |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``UINT64``       | ``TK_UINT64``     |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``FLOAT32``      | ``TK_FLOAT32``    |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``FLOAT64``      | ``TK_FLOAT64``    |
+------------------+-------------------+
| ``FLOAT128``     | ``TK_FLOAT128``   |
+------------------+-------------------+

> This examples show how to create members of each primitive type using |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api|.

Author: fixed in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

The |DynamicData-api| class has a specific :func:`get_string_value` and :func:`set_string_value`.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl
            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_STRINGS
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_STRINGS<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_STRINGS
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type,
please refer to :ref:`Primitives <xmldynamictypes_primivites>`.

Constructed Types
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Enumerated Types
""""""""""""""""

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_enumeration:

Enumerations
************

An enumeration contains a set of supported values and a selected value among those supported.
The ``TypeKind`` used to identify Enumerations is ``TK_ENUM``.

The supported values must be configured using the |DynamicTypeBuilder-api|, using the |DynamicTypeBuilder::add_member| 

> function for each supported value.

Author: added in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_ENUM
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_ENUM<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_ENUM
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type,
please refer to :ref:`Enumerations <xmldynamictypes_enums>`.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_bitmask:

Bitmasks
********

Bitmasks are similar to |Enumeration| types, but their members work as bit flags that can be individually turned on and
off.
The ``TypeKind`` used to identify Bitmasks is ``TK_BITMASK``.

Those flags might use the ``positition`` attribute to set their position in the bitmask.
The ``bit_bound`` attribute specifies the number of bits that the bitmask type will manage.
Bitmasks can be bound to any number of bits up to 64.
The |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| exposes the function |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_bitmask_type| to 

> facilitate the creation of this type.

Author: fixed in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

> 

Author: added in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

facilitate the creation of this type.
To create this type users need to specify the type that it is going to store.
Additionally, the size limit of the list. Users can use ``LENGTH_UNLIMITED`` to create unbounded sequences.

The |DynamicData-api| class has a specific :func:`get__values` and :func:`set__values` functions for each primitive 
type that allow users to work with multiple values at once.

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl
            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_SEQUENCES
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_SEQUENCES<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_SEQUENCES
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type,
please refer to :ref:`Sequences <xmldynamictypes_sequence>`.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_array:

Arrays
******

> Arrays are pretty similar to sequences with two main differences:
> They can have multiple dimensions and they do not need their elements to be stored consecutively.
> 
> An array needs to know the number of dimensions it is managing.
> For that, users must provide a vector with as many elements as dimensions in the array.
> Each element in the vector represents the size of the given dimension.
> 
> The |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| exposes the function |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_array_type| to 
> facilitate the creation of this type.
> 
> The |DynamicData-api| class has a specific :func:`get__values` and :func:`set___values` functions for each 
> primitive type that allow users to work with multiple values at once.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Arrays are very similar to sequences with two main differences:
They can have multiple dimensions and their elements are initialized to the default value at the start.

An array needs to know the number of dimensions it maanges.
The user must provide a vector with as many elements as there are dimensions in the array.
Each element in the vector represents the size of the given dimension.

The |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| exposes the function |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_array_type| to 
facilitate the creation of this type.

The |DynamicData-api| class has a specific :func:`get_values` and :func:`set_values` functions for each 
primitive type that allow users to work with multiple values at once.

```

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl
            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_ARRAYS
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_ARRAYS<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_ARRAYS
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type,
please refer to :ref:`Arrays <xmldynamictypes_array>`.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_map:

Maps
****

> Maps contain a list of 'key-value' pair types, allowing users to insert, remove or modify the element types of the map.
> The main difference with sequences is that the map works with pairs of elements and creates copies of the key element 
> to block the access to these elements.
> 
> The |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| exposes the function |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_map_type| to 
> facilitate the creation of this type.
> To create a map, users must set the types of the key and the value elements.
> Additionally, the size limit of the map. Users can use ``LENGTH_UNLIMITED`` to create unbounded sequences.
> 
> The |DynamicData-api| class has a specific :func:`get__values` and :func:`set___values` functions for each primitive 
> type that allow users to work with multiple values at once.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Maps contain a list of 'key-value' pair types, allowing users to insert, remove or modify the element types of the map.
The main difference with sequences is that the map works with pairs of elements and creates copies of the key element 
to block the access to these elements.

The |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| exposes the |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_map_type| function to 
facilitate the creation of this type.
To create a map, users must set the types of the key and the value elements.
Additionally, the size limit of the map. Users can use ``LENGTH_UNLIMITED`` to create unbounded sequences.

The |DynamicData-api| class has a specific :func:`get__values` and :func:`set___values` functions for each primitive 
type that allow users to work with multiple values at once.
```

> type that allow users to work with multiple values at once.

Reviewer: Instead of only talk about `get_value()` and `set_value()`, explain how the user access the key using `get_member_id_by_name` (explaining also each type has to be used here as `string`). Then with the MemberId retrieved, can modify the value.

Author: added in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl
            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_MAPS
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_MAPS<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_MAPS
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type,
please refer to :ref:`Maps <xmldynamictypes_map>`.

Aggregated Types
""""""""""""""""

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_structure:

Structures
**********

> Structures are the most common complex types, they allow to add any kind of members inside them.
> They do not have any value, they are only used to contain other types.
> 
> The function |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_type| is used to create a new structure type.
> The ``TypeKind`` used to identify Structures is ``TK_STRUCTURE``.
> 
> To manage the types inside the structure, users can call the :func:`get` and :func:`set` functions according to the 
> kind of the type inside the structure using their ``ids``.
> If the structure contains a complex value, |DynamicData::loan_value| should be used to access it and 
> |DynamicData::return_loaned_value| to release that loan.
> |DynamicData-api| manages the loaned values and users can not loan a value that has been loaned previously 
> without calling |DynamicData::return_loaned_value| before.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Structures are the most common aggregated types, they allow any kind of members to be added inside them.
They do not have any value, they are only used to contain other types.

The function |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory::create_type| is used to create a new structure type.
The ``TypeKind`` used to identify structures is ``TK_STRUCTURE``.

To manage the types inside the structure, users can call the :func:`get` and :func:`set` functions according to the 
kind of the type inside the structure using its ``id``.
If the structure contains a complex value, |DynamicData::loan_value| should be used to access it and 
|DynamicData::return_loaned_value| should be used to release that loan.
|DynamicData-api| manages the loaned values and users cannot loan a previously loaned value 
without calling |DynamicData::return_loaned_value| before.
```

.. tabs::

    .. tab:: IDL

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DynamicTypesIDLExamples.idl
            :language: idl
            :start-after: //!--IDL_STRUCT
            :end-before: //!--

    .. tab:: XML

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/XMLTester.xml
            :language: xml
            :start-after: <!-->XML_STRUCT<-->
            :end-before: <!--><-->

    .. tab:: C++

        .. literalinclude:: /../code/DDSCodeTester.cpp
            :language: c++
            :start-after: //!--CPP_STRUCT
            :end-before: //!--

For a detailed explanation about the XML definition of this type,
please refer to :ref:`Struct <xmldynamictypes_struct>`.

.. _xtypes_supportedtypes_union:

Unions
******

> Unions are a special kind of structures where only one of the members is active at the same time.
> The ``TypeKind`` used to identify Unions is ``TK_UNION``.
> 
> To control these members, users must set the ``discriminator`` type that is going to be used to select the current 
> member calling the |TypeDescriptor::discriminator_type| function of the union type.
> The ``discriminator`` itself is a DynamicType of any primitive type, string type or union type.
> 
> Additionally users can use the function |MemberDescriptor::label| with one or more values to set the labels of each 
> member of the union, and |MemberDescriptor::is_default_label| to specify the default label of the union.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unions are a special type of structure where only one of the members is active at a time.
The ``TypeKind`` used to identify unions is ``TK_UNION``.

To control these members, users must set the ``discriminator`` type that is going to be used to select the current 
member by calling the |TypeDescriptor::discriminator_type| function of the union type.
The ``discriminator`` itself is a DynamicType of any primitive type TODO.

In addition, users can use the |MemberDescriptor::label| function with one or more values to set the labels of each 
member of the union, and |MemberDescriptor::is_default_label| to set the default label of the union.
```

> member of the union, and |MemberDescriptor::is_default_label| to specify the default label of the union.

Reviewer: The discriminator of a union must be of one of the following types:
•Boolean
•Byte
•Char8, Char16
•Int8, UInt8, Int16, UInt16, Int32, UInt32, Int64, UInt64
•Any enumerated type
•Any alias type that resolves, directly or indirectly, to one of the aforementioned types.

Author: added in [e38d0d8](https://github.com/eProsima/Fast-DDS-docs/pull/730/commits/e38d0d856970dc4cdf6d7a04f3490344f7c903b1)

.. include:: ../../03-exports/aliases.include
.. include:: ../../03-exports/aliases-api.include
.. include:: ../../03-exports/roles.include

.. _xtypes_language_binding:

Dynamic Language Binding
========================

*eProsima Fast DDS* supports several methods to define |DynamicTypes|.
Manual creation using |DynamicTypeBuilderFactory-api| and |DynamicTypeBuilder-api| to create the types.

:ref:`XMLDynamicTypes <xmldynamictypes>` allows *eProsima Fast DDS* to create DynamicTypes by defining 
them directly through XML.

This section contains an small description of the interfaces used to work with |DynamicTypes| and a detailed
explanation of how to create |DynamicTypes| in the manual way, as well as the same examples using XML files.

.. _xtypes_intenfaces:

> Dynamic Types Interfaces

Reviewer 2: This section needs a small rework

Manipulating map types data is more complex.
First the :code:`MemberId` corresponding to a specific :code:`key` must be retrieved using
|DynamicData::get_member_id_by_name| API.

> This API either returns the :code:`MemberId` corresponding to the existing :code:`key`; or, if the :code:`key` does not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This API either returns the :code:`MemberId` corresponding to the existing :code:`key` or, if the :code:`key` does not
```
